=============================================

Welcome to Virtual Piano Sheet Music Creator!

=============================================

Although most of the help you could possibly
need is already available in the help menu of
the program, I have included this simple
readme file to facilitate your use of this
program.


   1.) Start up

When the splash screen is displayed, it will
play a little jingle before the start button
is displayed. During this process, the
program is checking for an important
application that is necessary in the process
of creating your own Virtual Piano sheet
music, which is called Anvil Studio. If this
software is still checking for the program, 
the button for Anvil Studio will be grayed
out when viewing the control panel. If the
button remains disabled, you may take the
time to visit the site manually to download
the program at www.anvilstudio.com.


   2.) Finding the song you want

Once you have Anvil Studio, the next step is
finding the song that you want. The format
of the song needs to be a midi file. Links
are provided on the control panel which
direct you to sites that host an array of
different music styles all available in the
format required. There is popular music, 
video game music, and classical music. But
you are not limited to just these sites; feel
free to explore the web for any midi files
you like.


   3.) Polish up those tunes

Open the midi file with Anvil Studio. You
will most likely see several tracks, each
with their own instrument. We need to narrow
the music down to one track for this to work
properly. Search for a column labeled, "On".
Now under this column you will see all of the
tracks seem to be "on". By clicking on the
text that says "on" next to each track will
toggle between on, mute, and solo. To delete
a group of notes, highlight them in the
display in the upper-right hand corner, click
"Edit" > "Delete Section (not time)". To
delete entire tracks (like you will most
likely do to drum, bass, and string ensemble
tracks), right click the track in the upper-
left hand corner and select "Delete track".
If there are multiple tracks you want
imported into the sheet music, select "Track"
> "Merge...". After you have the one track
you are going to use, select that track, and
click "View" > "Event List". Click "Save
Symbolic" to export the event list. You may
navigate to the "Event Lists" folder included
with this download and save the event list
there for easy access later on.


   4.) Converting event lists to sheet music

Once you have your event list, there are 3
methods for converting. The easiest method is
by opening the event list text file, pressing
ctrl+A (select all), ctrl+C (copy), then
pressing the "Convert From Clipboard" button
in the Virtual Piano Sheet Music Creator
control panel. The second option is to either
drag and drop the event list text file into
the control panel of the program, or by
clicking "Load Event List", navigate to the
event list text file, highlight the file, and
click open, and then clicking the "Convert
Event List" button on the control panel. With
the last of the two options, you are given
control over the difficulty setting of the
converted sheet music. The three levels of
difficulty correspond to the maximum number
of notes displayed together to be played
simultaneously: 1, 2, or 3 notes. The highest
pitch of all the notes are retained, and the
rest are lost in the conversion process. If
the notes are out of range for the virtual
piano, an warning message will appear notifying
you that some notes were out of range and 
were deleted.


   5.) Playing the music

Click on the "Open Virtual Piano" button in 
the control panel, then click on the "Play"
menu option to the right of the "Control
Panel" item. The window will resize to the
most efficient size for viewing the sheet
music and the Virtual Piano in your internet
browser simultaneously. There are a few
buttons here, most notably the tempo buttons,
which will increase or decrease the speed
at which the sheet music is displayed (for a
more detailed description of any buttons you
find in this program, go to the "Help" menu
item, and select "What Does This Button
Do?".) When you click "Start", you will have
five seconds to bring the Virtual Piano into
focus. Double-click the on-screen piano so it
will acquire keyboard focus and begin playing
when the notes start scrolling. There is a
little carat displayed below the notes as a
guide for when you should be typing on your
keyboard.


   6.) Exporting the sheet music
If you are satisfied with the sheet music
that you have generated, you may export it
via a text file by clicking the "Export Sheet
Music" button in the control panel. You may
save it in a condensed form, or an expanded
form. The condensed version does not contain
any extened spaces that are used to represent
rests while being played, and is easy to
read. The expanded version retains the spaces
that the program uses to represent rests so
it can be loaded again and played at a later
time.


That is the summary of how to use this
program. I hope you have as much fun with it
as I have. Enjoy!

Author: Mark F. Graves, Jr.
Version: 2013.09.15